FROM: https://flutter-tutorial.net/

What is an API?
An API, or Application Programming Interface,
is a set of rules for building and interacting with
software applications. It defines the methods and
data formats for requesting and exchanging information
between different software programs, enabling them to
communicate and share functionalities efficiently.

What is REST API?
A REST API, or Representational State Transfer API,
is a type of API that adheres to the REST architectural style.
It uses HTTP requests to access and use data, with the
operations including GET, POST, PUT, and DELETE.

Principles of REST
1. Client-server architecture: Separation of client and
server functionalities to improve portability and
scalability of the application.
2. Stateless: Each request from the client to the
server must contain all the information the server
needs to understand and complete the request.
3. Cacheable: Responses must define themselves as cacheable
or not to prevent clients from reusing stale or inappropriate data.
4. Uniform interface: Simplifies and decouples the architecture,
which enables each part to evolve independently.
5. Layered system: The client cannot tell whether it is
connected directly to the end server or to an intermediary.
6. Code on demand (optional): Servers can temporarily extend
or customize the functionality of a client by transferring
executable code.

How Do REST APIs Work?
When a client requires data or functionality, it sends a
request to the server using a URL. The server processes the
request, and then sends back a response. This response includes
a status line indicating success or failure and the requested
resource in the format specified by the request.

Components of a RESTful API Request
1. Resource identifier (URL): Uniquely identifies the resource
being requested.
2. HTTP Method: Defines the operation to be performed
(GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, etc.).
3. Headers: Provide metadata for the HTTP request,
including content type, authentication, etc.
4. Body (optional): Contains data sent with the request
(for POST, PUT methods).


Benefits of RESTful APIs
1.  Scalability: Efficient client-server interactions and
stateless operations facilitate scalability.
2. Flexibility and Independence: The separation of client
and server, along with the stateless nature of requests,
allows various parts of an application to evolve independently.
3. Widespread Use: Given its efficiency, simplicity, and
support across programming languages, REST APIs are widely
used for web services, including social media platforms,
mobile applications, and IoT devices.


HTTP Status Codes
Here are some common HTTP status codes and their meanings:

1. 200 OK: The request was successful.
2. 201 Created: The request has been fulfilled and resulted
in a new resource being created.
3. 400 Bad Request: The server cannot process the request due
to a client error.
4. 401 Unauthorized: The request has not been applied because
it lacks valid authentication credentials.
5. 404 Not Found: The server cannot find the requested resource.
6. 500 Internal Server Error: The server encountered an unexpected
condition that prevented it from fulfilling the request.


INTRODUCTION TO JSON
JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) is a lightweight data-interchange format.
Mostly it is used to transfer data between computers.

Characteristics of JSON
1. Lightweight: JSON is designed to be easy to use and quick to interpret,
making it ideal for data interchange.
2. Self-describing: JSON structures are clear and understandable,
making it easy to read and write.
3. Language Independent: Although derived from JavaScript, JSON is
language-independent, with many programming languages providing support
for parsing and generating JSON data.

NOTE:
JSON files have a .json extension.

Use Cases of JSON
1. App and Web Development: JSON is extensively used in app and web development
for transferring data between a server and a client.
2. APIs and Web Services: Many web services and APIs exchange data using JSON
format due to its straightforward and efficient structure.

JSON Data Types
JSON supports various data types, including:
1. String: A sequence of characters wrapped in quotes.
2. Number: Numeric data (integer or floating point).
3. Boolean: Represents a truth value (true or false).
4. Null: Represents a null value.
5. Array: An ordered list of values, enclosed in square brackets [].
6. Object: A collection of key-value pairs, enclosed in curly braces {}.

JSON Syntax Rules
Data is in name/value pairs.
Curly braces {} hold objects, while square brackets [] hold arrays.
Data is separated by commas, and each name in an object is followed
by a colon : which precedes the value.

Example of JSON Data:

{
  "name": "John Doe",
  "age": 30,
  "isEmployed": true,
  "address": {
    "street": "123 Main St",
    "city": "Anytown"
  },
  "phoneNumbers": ["123-456-7890", "456-789-0123"]
}
Why the Distinction, usin {} for Address and [] for Phone Number?
Address: A map is used because an address typically has labeled components
(street, city, etc.), and maps provide clarity and easy access to each part.
Phone Numbers: A list is used because phone numbers are just a collection of
values, and there's no inherent need to associate them with keys
(unless labeled, e.g., "home" and "work").


JSON vs. XML
JSON and XML are both used for data interchange, but JSON is generally
preferred due to its simpler syntax, faster parsing, and lighter data format.

Parsing JSON with Dart
To parse JSON in Dart, you can use the jsonDecode function from the
dart:convert package.

Example of Parsing JSON in Dart:

import 'dart:convert';

void main() {
  String jsonString = '''
  {
    "name": "John Doe",
    "age": 30,
    "isEmployed": true
  }
  ''';

  var decodedJson = jsonDecode(jsonString);

  print('Name: ${decodedJson['name']}');
  print('Age: ${decodedJson['age']}');
  print('Is Employed: ${decodedJson['isEmployed']}');
}

NOTE: Dart’s jsonDecode function returns a Map<String, dynamic>,
allowing for easy access to JSON properties.